I'm going to push back against a lot of the wwf (whiney white folk) on this thread.
As for myself, I've been working in the field as a hardcore engineer for 25 years
and responsible for about 15.

It's a pipeline problem only in that upper middle classes in the US, China and India
is always far, far overrepresented in whatever next big lucrative field is.
It was this way in investment banking before; now that there's 
"real money" to be made in computer science, it's in computer science now.
These parents now
know that computer science is a way to get ahead. So they make damn sure their kids 
have
every opportunity they can to get ahead in this field; some of these people have
their kids start with this stuff at 10 or younger. Do you think your typical working
class parent even knows how important this is? Is it even in their values system?
Growing up working class and going to a "commuter college" in the midwest, I
felt like I was always eight behind a lot of the other people I was competing
for grades with.
I've seen very few qualified resumes from African Americans or Latinos cross my
desk. I'd be willing to bet that if "working class whites" had distinctive surnames,
I could say the same thing.

And yes, the same dynamics are at work in China and India. If you think the people
they send over are the sons and daughters of people working in rice paddies you are
sadly, sadly mistaken. How do you think they come over, a rowboat? These are the
children of the upper middle class over there, and the only reason asians are
overrepresented is because they are overrepresented globally; 
there are simply so many of elites over there that can
afford to fly over here and pay full freight to get a Masters' degree here.
I don't begrudge any of them their success - I'm in favor
of much looser immagration. But don't imagine that this is due to innate merit.
These people had merit - AND they were born lucky. As for the asians born in this
country, doubly so (I say that as father of two half-asians).

To some extent, Facebook is the wrong employer to look to. There are always
a handful of companies that have their pick of everyone - and right now
the FAANG companies can prosper based on skimming off the piles of resumes that
come in everyday looking for a foot in the door.
Companies should not be emulating Facebook but taking advantage of them. 
There comes a time when the pipeline dries up (i.e., NOW) where 
you have to start hiring not just what comes across your desk
and matching keywords - you have to start looking for raw talent. This means 
actually looking at the brightest kids out of *shudders* state schools instead of
stupidly filtering out all but marquee universities. And looking at *horror*
people who went to rigorous math programs or even *yikes* liberal arts
programs like philosophy where they might learn how to think instead of how
to get through a coding exam.

Our company is a bit "old school"; we have solid legacy systems built on stuff that
are no longer taught much (Fortran and C++). We hire most of our people straight
out of college, and a lot of our hires come in knowing just the basics of coding.
On balance many of the "graduates" seem to have more promise than some of the
experienced people we interview, because we're free to hire for talent, instead
of being limited to the pool of candidates who learned how to play the system
from an early age. And *that* is how you are able to get a diverse pool of candidates.


